>> Mike North: Let's look at the Channel
Footer component and see what we need to
do in order to take advantage of
this action that we've just created.
So we know createMessage is
there waiting for us, and
channel-footer is still
a template-only component.
What we can do is we can
add an action in there.
Even though it's a presentation component
we can add an action that just serves to
sort of take us from receiving a DOM event
to working with the value in that input.
In my mind this does not
change this from being
a presentation component to a smart
component, or a container component.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're gonna run, being very careful not to
overwrite our template, ember g component,
>> Mike North: channel-footer.
>> Mike North: I'm not overriding it.
All right, so now let's look at
our channel footer HBS file.
And we wanna look for this,
there's our send button,
there's our input field
that's this down here,
and ultimately we have a form.
So it seems like we're back into the form
on submit territory, familiar ground.
On 'submit' this handleSubmit,
something like that.
Additionally, I want to be able to
keep track of the current value
in that input so that we can know whether
to disable the button or enable it.
And remember our initial approach
with the login form where we were
on the Submit action, that was
the first time we were ever looking for
what's the currently selected user?
That didn't give us a nice way of
having disabled versus enabled state.
We need some component state that kind of
keeps up to date with what's going on.
It should be up here on the input, this
updateMessageBody.
And I expect all sorts of errors
to be thrown because we have not
created these functions yet.
>> Mike North: All right, and we can give
it a body as well, value = this body.
>> Mike North: So what we'll need to do
now is fill in, in the JavaScript module,
this very limited capability
that we're adding, right?
This is only very local stuff-
>> Speaker 2: There's a typo, value.
>> Mike North: Value, thank you.
>> Mike North: Good catch, so we'll go
to the channel footer JS module and
we're gonna give ourselves
a body that's gonna be tracked.
>> Mike North: We'll
initialize it to an empty
string,
>> Mike North: And
we're gonna give ourselves
an action called updateMessageBody,
>> Mike North: And this is gonna receive
an event, and
we're going to say this.body =
evt.target.value
>> Mike North: And
we can give ourselves a disabled getter.
>> Mike North: So we'll say that this
form should be disabled if what?
>> Speaker 3: Body is empty string.
>> Mike North: Body is an empty string,
perfect.
So this body is an empty string.
In fact,
I'll say if it's any faulty value.
>> Mike North: So there you go,
we have is disabled.
This is enough that we can kind
of test things out on this end,
where we can replace this
always disabled thing and
the always gray colored with something
that is conditionally applied.
So disabled is this is disabled, and that
will take care of the disabled attribute.
And that kind of looks
the background coloration.
So let's replace that with if
this.isDisabled you are grey,
otherwise,
>> Mike North: Something like that.
All right, let's try typing in this thing.
>> [SOUND]
>> Speaker 4: You need to try it
in the body.
>> Mike North: I need a?
>> Speaker 4: I don't think you have
the attract over your body variable?
>> Mike North: Yes, good point.
>> Mike North: Good catch, there we go.
All right, the turn teal is still
kind of grayed out, or opacity.
Let's only dim it to 50% if it's disabled.
>> Mike North: There we go.
So this to me looks like our very
limited state is starting to work, and
if we look at our JS module that is very,
very, very simple.
This is definitely
a presentation-focused component.
And don't be like this is a gray area,
right?
This is very heavy on
the presentation side, but
you don't need to demand that everything
be a totally stateless component.
Even if you can get things to
where you're either 90% or
greater in one direction or another, like
90% or more towards the presentation side,
you already got a lot of the benefits
from this kind of architecture.
>> Speaker 5: Using those curly
braces inside the string,
is that a new Octane feature?
I remember having to use Concat and
some other things,
you're able to put that there,
is that because it's angle bracketed?
>> Mike North: Nope, okay,
here's why it looks a little different
than what you're used to seeing.
It has to do with the fact that we're
not in a handlebars expression already.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
>> Mike North: Right,
cuz we're just in class equals.
Now, this is not a component either way,
it's just a button.
I will say though, the fact that you've
seen me do it a couple of times, that is
a result of the fact that angle bracket
component syntax where we're doing,
just in case people don't have a reference
of what old stuff looked like before.
But when we invoke,
when we create components like this
we're not already in a handlebars
expression with the double curlies.
The old way of invoking components and
placing them there, that was handlebars.
So now this opens the door for some more
flexible use, where you don't have to
make everything an expression,
you can just drop handlebars in a class.
Yep, good observation for sure.